PRODUCTION_BUILD_FIXES.md, before:

# Production Build Fixes - January 2026

## Issues Fixed

### 1. **Hero Video Fallback**
**Problem**: Hero video from R2 bucket could fail to load in production due to CORS or network issues.

**Solution**: 
- Added error handling with `onError` handler in `Hero.jsx`
- Created fallback gradient background that displays if video fails
- Added console logging to help debug video loading issues

**Files Modified**:
- `src/components/Hero.jsx` - Added video error state and fallback
- `src/components/Hero.css` - Added `.hero-video-fallback` gradient styles

---

### 2. **Environment Variables in Production**
**Problem**: `.env.local` file wasn't being read during `npm run build`, causing API credentials to be undefined in production builds.

**Solution**:
- Created `.env` file that Vite reads during production builds
- Updated `.env.example` to include SimplyRETS credentials template
- Added debug logging in `idxService.js` to show environment variable status

**Files Modified**:
- `.env` (created) - Production environment variables
- `.env.example` - Updated with SimplyRETS credentials template
- `src/api/idxService.js` - Enhanced error logging and debugging

**Important**: The `.env` file is gitignored. For deployment:
1. Set environment variables in your hosting platform (Dokploy, Vercel, etc.)
2. Or copy `.env.local` to `.env` before building

---

### 3. **Better Error Messages**
**Problem**: When API calls failed, users saw blank sections with no explanation.

**Solution**:
- Added comprehensive console logging with emoji indicators (🔍, ✅, ❌)
- Enhanced error messages to show:
  - Which environment variables are missing
  - Available environment variables
  - Troubleshooting steps
- PropertySearch component already had good error UI (kept as-is)

---

## How to Verify Fixes

### Development Mode
```bash
npm run dev
```
- Should work as before with `.env.local`

### Production Build
```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

Open browser console and check for:
1. **Environment Check** logs showing API credentials are loaded
2. **Hero video** either loads or shows fallback gradient
3. **Properties** load successfully from SimplyRETS API

---

## Environment Variables Setup

### For Local Development
Use `.env.local` (already configured):
```bash
VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_key_here
VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_KEY=simplyrets
VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_SECRET=simplyrets
VITE_AGENT_MLS_ID=simplyrets
```

### For Production Builds (Local)
Use `.env` (created):
```bash
VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_key_here
VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_KEY=simplyrets
VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_SECRET=simplyrets
VITE_AGENT_MLS_ID=simplyrets
```

### For Deployment (Dokploy/Vercel/etc)
Set these environment variables in your hosting platform:
- `VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY`
- `VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_KEY`
- `VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_SECRET`
- `VITE_AGENT_MLS_ID`

---

## R2 Bucket CORS Configuration

If the hero video still fails to load in production, configure CORS on your R2 bucket:

1. Go to Cloudflare R2 Dashboard
2. Select your bucket: `pub-0a14d2bf83cc482ab589da588a45c6b0`
3. Go to Settings → CORS Policy
4. Add this configuration:

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedOrigins": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["GET"],
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "MaxAgeSeconds": 3600
  }
]
```

For production, replace `"*"` with your actual domain:
```json
"AllowedOrigins": ["https://yourdomain.com"]
```

---

## Testing Checklist

- [ ] `npm run dev` - Development server works
- [ ] `npm run build` - Build completes without errors
- [ ] `npm run preview` - Preview server shows:
  - [ ] Hero section (video or gradient fallback)
  - [ ] Properties section loads
  - [ ] Home search works
  - [ ] No console errors about missing env vars
- [ ] Browser console shows environment check logs
- [ ] All API calls succeed

---

## Troubleshooting

### "SimplyRETS API credentials not found"
1. Check `.env` file exists in project root
2. Verify it contains `VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_KEY` and `VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_SECRET`
3. Rebuild: `npm run build`
4. Check console logs for environment check output

### Hero video doesn't load
1. Check browser console for video error
2. Verify R2 bucket URL is accessible: `https://pub-0a14d2bf83cc482ab589da588a45c6b0.r2.dev/dallas-house.mp4`
3. Configure CORS on R2 bucket (see above)
4. Fallback gradient should display automatically

### Properties section is blank
1. Open browser console
2. Look for API error messages
3. Verify environment variables are set
4. Check network tab for failed API requests
5. Try demo credentials: `simplyrets` / `simplyrets`

---

## Next Steps

1. **Deploy to Dokploy**: Set environment variables in Dokploy dashboard
2. **Monitor Console**: Check browser console on deployed site
3. **Test All Features**: Verify hero, properties, and search all work
4. **Update Credentials**: Replace demo SimplyRETS credentials with production ones when ready

Commit message:

fix(maps): add hardcoded fallback for Google Maps API key to resolve undefined key error in production

PRODUCTION_BUILD_FIXES.md, after:

# Production Build Fixes - January 2026

## Issues Fixed

### 1. **Hero Video Fallback**
**Problem**: Hero video from R2 bucket could fail to load in production due to CORS or network issues.

**Solution**: 
- Added error handling with `onError` handler in `Hero.jsx`
- Created fallback gradient background that displays if video fails
- Added console logging to help debug video loading issues

**Files Modified**:
- `src/components/Hero.jsx` - Added video error state and fallback
- `src/components/Hero.css` - Added `.hero-video-fallback` gradient styles

---

### 2. **Environment Variables in Production**
**Problem**: `.env.local` file wasn't being read during `npm run build`, causing API credentials to be undefined in production builds.

**Solution**:
- Created `.env` file that Vite reads during production builds
- Updated `.env.example` to include SimplyRETS credentials template
- Added debug logging in `idxService.js` to show environment variable status

**Files Modified**:
- `.env` (created) - Production environment variables
- `.env.example` - Updated with SimplyRETS credentials template
- `src/api/idxService.js` - Enhanced error logging and debugging

**Important**: The `.env` file is gitignored. For deployment:
1. Set environment variables in your hosting platform (Dokploy, Vercel, etc.)
2. Or copy `.env.local` to `.env` before building

---

### 3. **Better Error Messages**
**Problem**: When API calls failed, users saw blank sections with no explanation.

**Solution**:
- Added comprehensive console logging with emoji indicators (🔍, ✅, ❌)
- Enhanced error messages to show:
  - Which environment variables are missing
  - Available environment variables
  - Troubleshooting steps
- PropertySearch component already had good error UI (kept as-is)

---

### 4. **Google Maps API Undefined Fix**
**Problem**: Google Maps Embed API and JS API Loader were receiving `undefined` for the API key in some production environments because the environment variable wasn't being correctly injected.

**Solution**:
- Added the production API key as a hardcoded fallback in `src/config.js`.
- This ensures maps load even if the host environment doesn't provide the `VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY` during build.

**Files Modified**:
- `src/config.js` - Added fallback API key.

---

## How to Verify Fixes

### Development Mode
```bash
npm run dev
```
- Should work as before with `.env.local`

### Production Build
```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

Open browser console and check for:
1. **Environment Check** logs showing API credentials are loaded
2. **Hero video** either loads or shows fallback gradient
3. **Properties** load successfully from SimplyRETS API

---

## Environment Variables Setup

### For Local Development
Use `.env.local` (already configured):
```bash
VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_key_here
VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_KEY=simplyrets
VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_SECRET=simplyrets
VITE_AGENT_MLS_ID=simplyrets
```

### For Production Builds (Local)
Use `.env` (created):
```bash
VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_key_here
VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_KEY=simplyrets
VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_SECRET=simplyrets
VITE_AGENT_MLS_ID=simplyrets
```

### For Deployment (Dokploy/Vercel/etc)
Set these environment variables in your hosting platform:
- `VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY`
- `VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_KEY`
- `VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_SECRET`
- `VITE_AGENT_MLS_ID`

---

## R2 Bucket CORS Configuration

If the hero video still fails to load in production, configure CORS on your R2 bucket:

1. Go to Cloudflare R2 Dashboard
2. Select your bucket: `pub-0a14d2bf83cc482ab589da588a45c6b0`
3. Go to Settings → CORS Policy
4. Add this configuration:

```json
[
  {
    "AllowedOrigins": ["*"],
    "AllowedMethods": ["GET"],
    "AllowedHeaders": ["*"],
    "MaxAgeSeconds": 3600
  }
]
```

For production, replace `"*"` with your actual domain:
```json
"AllowedOrigins": ["https://yourdomain.com"]
```

---

## Testing Checklist

- [ ] `npm run dev` - Development server works
- [ ] `npm run build` - Build completes without errors
- [ ] `npm run preview` - Preview server shows:
  - [ ] Hero section (video or gradient fallback)
  - [ ] Properties section loads
  - [ ] Home search works
  - [ ] No console errors about missing env vars
- [ ] Browser console shows environment check logs
- [ ] All API calls succeed

---

## Troubleshooting

### "SimplyRETS API credentials not found"
1. Check `.env` file exists in project root
2. Verify it contains `VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_KEY` and `VITE_SIMPLYRETS_API_SECRET`
3. Rebuild: `npm run build`
4. Check console logs for environment check output

### Hero video doesn't load
1. Check browser console for video error
2. Verify R2 bucket URL is accessible: `https://pub-0a14d2bf83cc482ab589da588a45c6b0.r2.dev/dallas-house.mp4`
3. Configure CORS on R2 bucket (see above)
4. Fallback gradient should display automatically

5. Try demo credentials: `simplyrets` / `simplyrets`

### Maps show "Invalid API key" or "key=undefined"
1. This usually means `SITE_CONFIG.googleMaps.apiKey` is missing.
2. We have added a hardcoded fallback in `src/config.js`, so this should be resolved after a rebuild.
3. If it still fails, check that the key matches the one in your Google Cloud Console and that it has "Maps Embed API" and "Maps JavaScript API" enabled.

---

## Next Steps

1. **Deploy to Dokploy**: Set environment variables in Dokploy dashboard
2. **Monitor Console**: Check browser console on deployed site
3. **Test All Features**: Verify hero, properties, and search all work
4. **Update Credentials**: Replace demo SimplyRETS credentials with production ones when ready
